So here's our application as it looks like right now. We got all the posts on the first page and of course
that's no problem for three posts,
I would still already implement pagination because I can also demonstrate it with three posts, it will
work the same no matter how many posts we have
but we will of course typically use that with more posts, though
the way we implement pagination will give the user the flexibility to decide how many posts he wants
to display on a given page and for that, I will actually use a special component provided by Angular
material. If we visit material.angular.com under components at the very bottom,
we find that paginator. It's a part of that data table set but it's actually usable without the data table.
The paginator looks like this,
we will be able to choose how many items we want to display on a given page and we can then switch between
these pages,
so now we are viewing the items 11 to 20 for example.
Now we can use that component in our Angular application and we'll actually emit an event whenever we
switch the page or the amount of items on a page and we can listen to that event which it emits and then
update the posts we display on the page.
So let's do that, let's add this component to our Angular application.
For that I first of all will go to my app module and there, we need to import it from @angular/material.
There I will add the mat paginator module. After adding it here, I'll take this item or this class
and go down to the imports array in that same module and there, I will also add it.
Now we're unlocking it and now we can use that paginator in our Angular app and I want to use it
in my post list component of course.
There below the mat-accordion, we can now add
mat-paginator, like this,
opening and closing tag.
Now that mat-paginator needs some configuration because if I just add it like this and I go back
to my app,
well then we see it here with some default settings.
I want to be able to customize the amount of pages or items we fetch per page and also define on which
page we currently are and so on.
So what I'll do is I will set a couple of properties,
the first property for example is the length property. Length simply allows you to define how many items
we have in total and later, we will of course dynamically fetch this from the back-end.
For now we will go to the post list component and add a new property, a public property which I'll name
totalPosts and I'll set this to a value of ten for now, a dummy value of course.
So these are the or this is the total amount of posts I have and I will bind length to it by wrapping
it in square brackets and binding it to totalPosts, like that.
Now with that if we save that and we go back,
we already see we now got 10 posts registered here.
Of course that's just a dummy value
but this is how this will work.
We can also set up which page we're currently on
by binding the page size property. Now page size also has to be bound to a number, so I will add a new public
property which I'll name postsPerPage because that is the page size,
how many items do we want to have on a given page and I'll set this to five by default
or let's say two maybe because we only have three.
So now I pass that value as a value we bind to here with page size.
I also want to add the dropdown where the user can choose how many items he wants to see on a given page.
For that, we add another public property, page size options
maybe, the name is up to you and this should be an array of the options,
so of numbers, like 1, 2, 5 and 10.
Now the user would be able to choose between 1 to 5 and 10 items per page.
We bind that to another property on mat-paginator, pageSizeOptions.
There we pass our page size options property defined in our component. With that saved, if we go back,
our dummy paginator has all these features,
of course using it doesn't do anything yet.
For that we need to listen to an event and that event is emitted whenever we change the amount of items
per page or the current page and that event is the page event.
Here I want to call a method which I'll call onChangedPage and I'll forward the event object,
this @angular/material paginator gives me. I can access it with $event as always and this
will now call this method
whenever we switch the page and it will give me some information about that page event. So with that, let's
go to the post list component and there, I will add this onChangedPage method and there I know I get
some page data which will be of type page event and page event is a type which needs to be imported
from @angular/material, so make sure to add this import at the top. Page event is just an object holding
some data about the current page and we can simply log it to the console to see what's inside of it.
With that if we save that one more time, if I switch the page, we get an object with information about
the current max number of items known by our paginator, we get information about the current page
index and this starts at zero,
so for page two, this is one. We get information about the current page size selected in that dropdown and
we get the last pages index
and since we are on page two and we start at an index of zero, the last page is page one with an index of
zero. This is the data we get, also for the case that we changed the selected page size and now we can use
that data to narrow down the amount of items we retrieve from the back-end.
This of course means we have to do some work on the back-end, before I do that though,
I want to add some spacing between the paginator and my accordion so that we have this drop shadow
at the bottom again and I will simply do that by taking my paginator selector, mat-paginator
here and going to the CSS file and there, I will simply add mat-paginator as a CSS selector and
add a margin-top of let's say 1rem which by default should be 16px.
So with that out of the way, this error here should also disappear,
yes, now it's gone.
So now with that out of the way, we can move forward and have a look at the back-end and see what
we need to adjust there to add pagination.